Start with an acorn squash. Cut it in half and scoop out guts. Add in salt, pepper, and olive oil, rub onto cut surface. Roast at 350 degrees F. While thst happens, make a semolina fresh pasta dough. Plenty of ways to do this, I literally just use the recipe given by bob’s red mill on their semolina bags. Roll out and laminate 3 times for gluten development. Roll out flat, rest 10 minutes. Continue to roll until you can see light pass through the pasta. Let it rest. If you want you can also laminate in spices or other colorants; here I did basil and paprika.

Take the soft, roasted squash and spoon it into a bowl. Add salt, pepper, ginger, cinnimon, cloves, nutmeg. It should smell like pumpkin pie. Add any other spices you desire. Mash smooth. Optionally add butter or oil for smoother texture.

Take a round cutting tool and cut your pasta into rounds. Spoon around a tablespoon of filling onto half the rounds. Wet the rim of the filled round with a finger and seal the unfilled round around the other round. Transfer to parchment. Roll scraps back into more pasta.

Now I’d prefer a dish like this with a browned butter sauce, however I had family over and they wanted to eat on the lighter side so I thought I’d make pesto instead. Plenty of ways to do this. This time I aired on the side of more pine nuts to give it a more “buttery” flavor. 

Add pine nuts and DESTEMMED basil (I made this mistake don’t do it) to a mortar with some big flakes of salt. Grind smooth, really smooth. As smooth as you can get it. Add garlic to taste, grinding in the mortar smooth once again. Add Parmesan or any grana cheese of your choice to the mortar in batches, grind smooth. Don’t add all at once or you may have emulsion problems. While grinding, stream in olive oil (again don’t pour in or else it won’t emulsify) until you reach desired consistency. Season to taste.

Salt boil water and boil ravioli until fork tender. Fresh pasta boils fast. Remove from water and add to large bowl while hot. Add pesto and toss to combine. Add to plate, add more nuts on top.
